
## comment 
- #this is a comment 
### variable
- **Define**: `VAR_NAME=value`
- **Access**: `echo $VAR_NAME`
- **Export**: `export VAR_NAME` : To make a variable available to child processes or subshells, use the `export` command
- **Read-only**: `readonly VAR_NAME` : If you want to prevent a variable from being changed, you can declare it as read-only using the `readonly` command:
- **Unset**: `unset VAR_NAME` :To remove a variable, you can use the `unset` command: 

### System Variables in Bash
- **Definition**: System (or environment) variables are dynamic values that provide information about the environment and configure the behavior of processes and applications.
-  **Common System Variables**
	1. **`$HOME`**: Current user's home directory.
	2. **`$USER`**: Name of the currently logged-in user.
	3. **`$PATH`**: List of directories for executable files.
	4. **`$SHELL`**: Path of the current shell (e.g., `/bin/bash`).
	5. **`$PWD`**: Current working directory.
	6. **`$OLDPWD`**: Previous working directory.
	7. **`$LANG`**: Current language setting.
	8. **`$EDITOR`**: Default text editor.
	9. **`$UID`**: User ID of the current user.
	10. **`$HOSTNAME`**: Name of the current host.
	11. **`$BASH_VERSION`**: Bash version
	
- **Viewing Environment Variables**
	- **`printenv`**: Lists all environment variables.
	- **`env`**: Displays all environment variables.
	- **`set`**: Shows all variables (environment and shell).
	### Setting and Modifying Environment Variables
**Setting and Modifying Environment Variables**
- **Setting a Variable**: You can define a new variable or modify an existing one by using
    `VARIABLE_NAME=value`
- **Exporting a Variable**: To make a variable available to all child processes or subshells, use the `export` command:      
    `export VARIABLE_NAME`

### Array 
**Declaring an Array**
my_array=("apple" "banana" "cherry")
**Accessing Array Elements**
echo "${my_array[0]}"  # Outputs: apple
**Adding Elements to an Array**
my_array[3]="date"
**Printing All Elements in an Array**
echo "${my_array[@]}"   # Prints all elements
echo "${my_array[\*]}\"   \# Also prints all elements
**Finding Array Length**
echo "${#my_array[@]}"  # Outputs the number of elements in my_array
**Removing an Element from an Array**
unset my_array[1]  # Removes "banana"
**Looping Through an Array**
```bash 
for element in "${my_array[@]}"; do
    echo "$element"
done```

### Readonly variable
- name suggest variable that only use for read purpose , can't be overwrite
- To make variable readonly syntax `readonly var`


### Environment variable : 
  - environment variable are global system variable accessible by the all the processes/users running under (eg-cmd) operating system (os) , such as window , macos & linux.
  - environment variable are useful to store system wide values for example
      - PATH :
      - OS:
      - COMPUTERNAME ,USERNAME:
      - SystemRoot:
      - HOMEDRIVE , HOMEPATH:
   - In cmd we write any cmd like git or npm or other first check PATH variable 
     content folder content any executable file name the command then run 
	    - eg - cmd git init => find git.exe and run 
	    - echo $PATH ---> use to see PATH variable value & other env var value