
### File classification
1. **Regular Files**
- Description: The most common file type, used to store data such as text, executable code, documents, or images.
- Types : Can be further divided into text files (e.g., `.txt`) and binary files (e.g., executables, images,video).
- Example : `/home/user/document.txt`, `/bin/bash`

2. **Directory Files**
- Description : Special files that act as containers for other files or directories, forming the file system hierarchy.
- Purpose : Organize files into a structured layout.
- Example : `/home`, `/usr/local`

3. **Device Files**
- Description: Files that represent hardware devices, allowing the OS and applications to interact with devices as files.
- Types:
    - **Block Special Files**: Handle data in fixed-size blocks (e.g., hard drives, `/dev/sda`).
    - **Character Special Files**: Handle data as streams of bytes (e.g., terminals, `/dev/tty`).
 
4. **Named Pipes (FIFOs)**
- Description: Special files that enable communication between processes by acting as a one-way data channel.
- Purpose: Primarily used for inter-process communication (IPC).
- Example: A named pipe for logging, `/tmp/logpipe`

5. **Socket Files**
- Description : Special files used for network communication between processes, both local and remote.
- Purpose : Commonly used in network services and server applications.
- Example : `/var/run/docker.sock`

6. **Symbolic (Soft) Links**
- Description: Pointers to other files or directories, allowing shortcuts or references without duplicating data.
- Purpose: Link to other files or directories, making them accessible from multiple locations.
- Example: `/home/user/docs -> /mnt/storage/docs`


###  File test operators
**Check file exist or not**
```bash
if [ -e $filename ]
then
echo "$filename file exist"
else
echo "file doesn't exist"
fi
```

**Check file empty***
```bash
if [ -s $filename ]
then
echo "$filename is not empty"
else
echo "file is empty"
fi
```

**Check file is regular file and exist**
```bash
if [ -f $filename ]
then
echo "$filename  file is regular file and exist"
else
echo "file is not regular file or doesn't exist "
fi

```

**Check file is directory/folder  and exist**
```bash
if [ -e $filename ]
then
echo "$filename  is a folder/directory and exist"
else
echo "file is not a folder/directory or doesn't exist"
fi
```
*NOTE: folder/directory is also a type of file called directory file ,contain references to other files or directories that help organize the file system into a hierarchy.*

**Check file is block special file  and exist**
```bash
if [ -b $filename ]
then
echo "$filename  is a block-special file and exist"
else
echo "file is not block-special file or doesn't exist"
fi
```
**Check file is character special file  and exist**
```bash
if [ -c $filename ]
then
echo "$filename  is a character-special file and exist"
else
echo "file is not a character-special file or doesn't exist"
fi
```

-r , -w , -x for check read , write , exicute permission



### Write in file
**Overwrite**
`cat > hello.txt`

**Append**
``cat >> hello.txt``

*NOTE: crt + d for save and quit, crt + c for quit only not save.

### Read file
**way 1**
```bash
cat file.txt | while read p 
do
  echo $p
done
```
**way2**
```bash
while IFS=' ' read -r line
do
  echo $line
done  < file.txt
```
**good way (using IFS=' ')**
```bash
while IFS=' ' read -r line
do
  echo $line
done  < file.txt
```

**using file descriptor** 
