
### redirection, & , pipe 










### Processor ID
- `echo $$` => print processor ID
- `kill processor_id` => to kill process


### Signals and Traps
In Bash scripting, **signals** and **traps** are essential tools for handling unexpected events and ensuring script stability. Here’s an overview:
**Signals**
Signals are notifications sent to a process to notify it of specific events, like a request to terminate. Common signals include:
- **SIGINT** (`2`): Triggered when pressing `Ctrl + C`, typically used to interrupt a process.
- **SIGTERM** (`15`): The default signal for terminating a process gracefully.
- **SIGKILL** (`9`): Forces process termination without cleanup.
- **SIGHUP** (`1`): Often sent to a process when its controlling terminal is closed.

**Traps**
A **trap** is a command in a shell script that catches a signal and executes a specific command or set of commands. Traps are useful for handling cleanup tasks, like deleting temporary files, logging, or gracefully shutting down. Here’s the basic syntax:
`trap "commands" SIGNAL`
For example, to trap the SIGINT signal and perform cleanup when a script is interrupted, you could use:
```bash
#!/bin/bash 
trap "echo 'Caught SIGINT signal'; exit" SIGINT 
echo "Press Ctrl+C to interrupt" 
while true;
do
sleep 1
done`
```

- remove trap list 

### Debugging 
THREE WAY
1. **Use `PS4` for Customized Debug Output**
- Set `PS4` to include additional information when debugging. It’s useful for large scripts.
- Example:
   ```bash
   bash -x script.sh
   ```

2. **Using -x with  #!/bin/bash**
```bash
#!bin/bash -x
....
```

3. **Using `set -x` and `set +x`**
- `set -x`: Turns on debugging, showing each command and its expanded arguments as they are executed.
- `set +x`: Turns off debugging.
- Example:
```bash 
set -x
 # Commands to debug
set +x
 ```

OTHER OPTIONS
  **Use the `-v` and `-n` Options**
- `bash -v script.sh`: Prints each line as it reads it (useful to see the structure and flow of your script).
- `bash -n script.sh`: Checks for syntax errors without executing the script.

 **Using the `trap` Command**
- `trap 'commands' SIGNAL`: Executes specified commands when a particular signal is received. For debugging, `trap 'echo "Error at line $LINENO"' ERR` is useful.
- Example:
- `trap 'echo "Error on line $LINENO"' ERR`
    
 **Debugging Functions with `declare -f`**
- Use `declare -f function_name` to display the definition of a function, making it easier to inspect functions without executing them.

 **Using `ERR` Exit Traps**
- Setting `trap` on `ERR` can help catch errors and print messages when the script exits with an error.
- Example:
    `trap 'echo "Error at line $LINENO"; exit 1' ERR`
    

