### **SQL**
- SQL stands for structured query language.
- SQL is case insensitive language.
- It is lanuage to access and manipulate databases.
- Standard lanuage (ANSI standard) for dealing with all relational database eg: oracle , Mysql , MSsql , SQL server , DB2 etc.
- Initialy developed by IBM.
- Initial name was SEQUEL ( Structure English Query Lanuage).
- Althogh most database systems use SQL most of them also have their own additional property extensions that are usally only used on their system
### **Types of SQL commands**
- Based on the operation they do majorly we categories SQL commands in three type but we will also study more other types.  
- **1. DDL (Data Definition Language) :**
	- Commands to create , drop , truncate & alter are DDL command.
	- eg : CREATE DTABASE , DROP DATABASE , CREATE TABLE , ALTER TABLE , DROP TABLE.
- **2. DQL (Data Query Language) :** 
	- eg : SELECT 
- **3. DML (Data Manipulation Lanuage) :**
	- DML command are insertion of data into table updating and deleting data from table.
	- eg : INSERT , UPDATE , DELETE .
	- Extracting data without removing data from the table.
- 4. Data Control Language
	- eg : GRANT , REVOKE  
- 5. Transaction Control Language
	- eg : BEGIN TRANSACTION , COMMIT , ROLLBACK , SAVE POINT.  

---
### **ImportantCommands**
- **CREATE DATABASE
- **DROP DATABASE
- CREATE TABLE
- ALTER TABLE
- DROP TABLE
- **SELECT 
- **INSERT
- **UPDATE 
- **DELETE
---

### **Query**
- Database query is a request to database managment system for specific information. 

---
### **Integrity Constrains**
- Integrity means purity completness constraints means check point .
- Integrity constraints provide a way of ensuring that changes made to the database by authorized users do not result in a loss of data consistency.
- Integrity means someting like 'be right' and consistent
- Types of integrity
	- 1. Domain Integrity
	- 2. Entity Integrity
	- 3. Reterential integrity
	- 4. Foreign Key Integrity
---
### **Domain Integrity**
- Domain integrity means the definition of a valid set of values for an attributes . you define 
	- Data Type
	- Length or Size
	- Is null vlaue allowed
	- Is the value unique
	- Default value
	- Range of value

---
### **Entity Integrity**
- The entity integrity constrain states that primary keys can't be null.
- There must be a proper value in the primary key field.
- This is because the primary key value is used to idetify individual rows in a table.
---
### **Referential Integrity**
- The referntail integrity costrainst is specified between two tables & it is used to maintain the consistency amonge rows between the two tables.
- **Rules**
	- 1. You can't record from a primary table if matchin records exist in a related table.
	- 2. You can't chnage a primary key value in the primary table if that record has related records.
	- 3. You can't enter a value in the forign key field of the related table that doesn't exist in the primary key of the primary table.
	- 4. However , yu can enter a Null value in the foreign key , specifying that the records are unrelated.
---
### **Foreign Key Integrity**
- There are two foregin key integrity constraints.
	- **1. Cascade update related fields**
		- Any time you change the primary key of a row in the primary table , the foreign key vaues are updated in the matching rows in the related table.
		- This constraint overrules rule 2 in the referential integrity constraints.
	- **2. Cascade delet related rows**
		- Any time you delet row in the priary table , the matching rows are automatically deleted the related table.
		- This constraint overule rule 1 in referentail ntegrity constraints.
---
### **SQL Constraints**
- NOT NULL
- UNIQUE
- CHECKS 
- DEFAULT 
- INDEX
---
### **SQL Commands**
- 1. Create Database : CREATE DATABASE database_name
- 2. Create Table : CREATE TABLE table_name (column_name tpe \[constriant] , ...)

---
### **MySQL**
- MySQL is an open source RDBMS.
- My : Name of the daughter of co-founder Michael Widenius.
- SQL : Structured Query Language 
- FIrst release : 1995
- Programming Language  : C , C++.
- Owner : Oracle
---
### **Michael Widenius**
- Aka Monty 
- Co-founder MySQL AB
- Three Children My , Max , Maria
- Currently CTO of the MariaDB
- Also founder of venture capital firm OpenOcean
- County : Finland
---
### **Setup**
- MySQL communirt server (RDBMS)
	- visit : https://www.mysql.com/downloads
	- scroll down and click on  MySQL Community (GPL) Downloads
	- On next screen click on MySQL Community Server
- Workbench (ODBC)
	- visit : https://www.mysql.com/downloads
	- scroll down and click on  MySQL Community (GPL) Downloads
	- On next Screen click on MySQL Workbench
---
### **First interaction**
- Note : must be dbms server runinng then
- By cmd : mysql -u root -p  then enter password.
- By MySQL CLI : enter password
- By GUI : Workbench 


### **Commands or Queries**
- status;
- show databases;
- create database d1;
- use database d1;
- show tables;
- describe table_name;
- select column_name from table_name;

### **Create Table**
- **Create table :**
```sql
#SYNTAX
CREATE TABLE tablename (column1 datatype constraint, column2 datatype constraint,...)

#EXAMPLE
CREATE TABLE Employee (empid int , name varchar(255) , age int , salary float(9))
```
- **Schema :** Table defination can be describe with columns in table and associated data type (also constraints).
- **Data Types :**
	- int (size) or integer(size) : -2147483648 to 2147483647
	- bigint (size) : -9223372036854775808 to 9223372036854775807
	- mediumint (size) : -8388608 to 8388607
	- shortint (size) : -32768 to 32767
	- --------------------------------------------------------
	- bool or boolean : 0 = false , non-zero = true
	- float (p)  : p = 0 to 24 => float , p = 25 to 53 => double
	- double ( size , d)
	- --------------------------------------------------------
	- char (size) : fixed length 0 to 255
	- varchar (size) : variable length size 0 to 65535
	- text (size) : max length 65535
	- tinytext (size) : max length 255
	- mediumtext : max length 16777215
	- longtext : mac length 4294967295
	- ---------------------------------------------------------
	- enum(var1 , var2 , var3...) : maximum var 6335  
	- date : yyyy-mm-dd
	- datetime : yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss
	- year : yyyy (1901 to 2155)
- **Drop Table :**
```sql
#SYNTAX
DROP TABLE tablename;

#EXAMPLE
DROP TABLE Empolyee;
```
