### **What Does a Computer Understand?**
- Computer does not understand natural human language, nor programming languages.
- They only understand the lanuage of bits (0s and 1s).
- **Bit :** A variable that can have two values: 0 or 1.
- **Byte :** A sequence of 8 bits. (1byte = 8 bits).
- **Word :** 4 bytes.
- **kiloBytes** : 1024 bytes = 2<sup>10</sup> bytes.
- **megaBytes :** 1024 kiloBytes = 10 <sup>6</sup> Bytes. = 2<sup>20</sup> bytes.
- We shall see that it is very easy to store, retrieve and process billions of 0s and 1s. Secondly, existing technologies to implement computers using silicon transistors are very compatible with the notion of processing 0s and 1s.
- A basic silicon transistor is a switch that can set the output to a logical 0 or 1, based on the input. The silicon transistor is the basis of all the electronic computers that we have today right from processors in mobile phones to processors in supercomputers.
---

### **Binary**
- Binary representation is the way numbers, data, or instructions are expressed using only two symbols: 0 and 1.
- Binary variables (0 or 1) were first described by George Boole in 1854. He used such variables and their associated operations to describe logic in a mathematical sense. He defined a full algebra consisting of simple binary variables, along with a new set of operators, and basic operations. 
- In the honour of George Boole, a binary variable is also known as a Boolean variable, and an algebraic system of Boolean variables is known as Boolean algebra.

---
### **Logical Operation**
- 