### nmap
- Network mapper 
- EX: nmap -sn 192.168.1.0/24 => scan all the host active or not

### shodan
### tracert / traceroute (linux)
- traceroute
- In the big world of the internet, data packets travel through a series of routers before reaching their destination. Tracert traceroute is a command that allows you to trace this path, providing valuable insights into your network connection.
- Tracert, short for traceroute, is like a digital detective. It traces the route taken by your data, revealing each hop (router) it encounters and the time it takes to reach it. This information is crucial for diagnosing network issues.
- EX:  traceroute google.com
### nslookup
- name server lookup
- network utility used to query the Domain Name System (DNS) to obtain information about domain names, IP addresses, and other DNS records. It's a valuable tool for troubleshooting DNS-related issues and obtaining detailed information about a domain.
- EX: nslookup google.com 

### dig
- Domain Information Groper
- powerful DNS lookup tool that provides more detailed information than `nslookup`. It is often used by network administrators, security experts, and system administrators for troubleshooting and investigating DNS-related issues.
- EX : dig google.com
### curl
- Linux curl command is used to download or upload data to a server via supported protocols such as HTTP, FTP, IMAP, SFTP, TFTP, IMAP, POP3, SCP, etc. It is a remote utility, so it works without user interaction.
- EX: curl google.com

### ifconfig
- interface configuration
- Ifconfig is  a command-line tool used to configure, control, and query network interface parameters in Unix-like operating systems
- EX: ifconfig 
### hping
- **`hping`** is a command-line tool for network packet crafting, analysis, and testing, mainly used for network security auditing and testing firewall configurations.
- Originally designed as a "ping" replacement with advanced capabilities, it allows users to send custom TCP/IP packets and analyze the responses, making it useful for identifying open ports, measuring round-trip times, and even simulating various types of network traffic.
- EX : hping3 -S  'target-IP' -p 'port-number'
### ping
- `ping` is a basic network utility used to test the connectivity between a source (your computer) and a destination (another computer, server, or device on the network). It operates by sending Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) echo request packets to the target and waiting for a response.
- EX : ping google.com

### arp
- Address resolution protocols
- A communication protocol that finds the physical address of a device on a network using its IP address.
- arp 192.168.1.4
### dd
- The dd command in Linux is a command-line utility that can copy and convert data at a low level. It's also known as the "disk destroyer", "data definition", "disk dump", or "disk duplicator".
- EX : dd if=hello.txt of=go.txt bs=1M
### head
- used to display the first few lines of a file. By default, it shows the first 10 lines of the specified file(s), but you can customize the number of lines or bytes to display.
- EX : head -n 5 filename.txt

### tail
- used to display the last part of a file. By default, it shows the last 10 lines, but you can customize the number of lines or bytes to display. It’s often used for monitoring logs and tracking real-time updates.
- EX : tail -n 5 filename.txt

### grep
- used for searching text within files. It searches for lines that match a specified pattern and prints them to the standard output. `grep` is incredibly powerful for finding specific data in logs, code files, and text documents.
- EX : grep "pattern" file.txt

### wireshark
- Wireshark is a network packet analyzer. A network packet analyzer presents captured packet data in as much detail as possible.
### winhex
- WinHex is a professional hexadecimal editor and disk editing tool for Windows. It’s primarily used for computer forensics, data recovery, low-level data processing, and IT security.
- WinHex allows users to view and manipulate data at the binary level, which is especially useful when analyzing raw disk contents, recovering deleted files, or examining data structures.

### memdump

### FTK imager
- powerful forensic imaging tool developed by AccessData, widely used in digital forensics for creating exact copies (disk images) of storage devices for analysis.
- It is often used by law enforcement, incident responders, and cybersecurity professionals to capture, preserve, and analyze digital evidence. FTK Imager is part of the **Forensic Toolkit (FTK)** suite, but it can also be used independently as a lightweight tool for creating and viewing disk images.

### autopsy
- open-source digital forensics platform and graphical user interface (GUI) that allows investigators to perform detailed analysis of digital evidence, especially when dealing with disk images, file systems, and other storage media. It is often used for investigations related to cybercrime, data breaches, and other security incidents, providing tools to examine and extract information from storage devices in a forensically sound manner.
- Autopsy is built on top of The Sleuth Kit (TSK), a collection of command-line tools for forensic analysis. The platform allows users to take full advantage of TSK's capabilities while providing a user-friendly interface for more efficient forensic investigations.
