### **What is Exception**
- Exception is in java are any abnormal unexcepted event or extraordinary conditions that may occur at runtime.
---
### **Exception Handling**
- Java execption handling is used to handle error conditions in a program systmatically by taking the necessory action.
- Four option :
	- 1. Default throw and default catach 
	- 2. Default throw and our catch
	- 3. Our throw and default catch 
	- 4. Our throw and our catch 

---
### **Throw and Catch**
- Java exceptions are raised with the throw keyword and handlead within a catch block.
---
### **Throwable**
- The throwable class provides a String variables that can be  set by the subclasss to provides more information of the exception occured.
- All classes of Throwable define a one parameter constructor that takes a string as the detail message.
- The classs Throwable provides getMessage() function to retrive an exception.
---
### **Exceptions are of two types**
- The class Exception represents exceptions that a program faces due to abnormal or special conditions durig execution.
- Exception can be of 2 types :
	- 1. checked (compile time execution)
	- 2. unchecked (run time execution)

---
### **Unchecked Exception**
- Unchecked exceptions are RuntimeException and any of its subclasses.
- ArrayIndxOutBounnds , NullPointerException and so on are all sub classes the java.lang.RuntimeException class , which is a subclass of the Exception class.
---
### **Compile Time Error in Checked Exception**
- Checked Exception forces programmers to deal with the exception that may thrown.
- IOException , SQLException , IllegalThreadStateException etc are checked exceptions.
- "checked" means they will be checked at compile time  itself .








