### **Garbage Collection**
- In java destruction of object from memory is done  automatically by the JVM.
- No delete keyword in java.
- When there is no refrece to an object , then that object is assumed to be no longer needed and the memory occupied by the object are released. 
- The technique is called Garbage Collection.
- This is accomplished by the JVM.
- In other languages like c++ , GC is performed manually using destructor.

---
### **JVM threads**
- whenever you run a java program , JVM creates three threads.
	- 1. Main thread
	- 2. Thread schedular
	- 3. Garbage Collector Thread
- In these three threads , main threads is a user thread and remaining two are daemon threads which run in background.

---
### **Garbage collector thread**
- Abandoned objects or dead objects are those object which does not have live refrences.
---
### **Call Grabage Collector Forcefully**
- We can call garbage collector explicitly using.
```java
System.gc()
OR
RunTime.getRunTime().gc()
```
- But , it is just a request to garbage collector not a command.
- It is up to garbage collector to honour this request. 

---
### **Advantage of Garbage Collector**
 - Increase memory effciency and decreases the chances for memory leak.
---

### **Object's Memory**
- An object is created in the memory using new operator . Constructor is used to initialize the properties of that object.  
- When an object is no more required ,it must be removed from the memory so that memory can be reused for other objects.

----
### **Finalize Method (not in use now, jdk21/22 update)**
- Garbage collector thread before sweeping out an abandoned object ,it calls finalize() method of that object.
- After finalize() method is executed , object is destroyed from the memory.
- finalize() method is a protected and non-static method of java.lang.Object.
- **Syntax :**
```java
protected void finalize()  throws Throwable
{
   //code here
}
```
- That means clean up operations which you kept in the finalize() method are executed before an object is destroyed from the memory.
- Garbage Collector threads calls finalize() method only once for one object.
- **Explicit call to finalize :**
	- You can call finalize() method explicitly on an object before it is abandoned .
	- When you call , only operations kept in finalize() method are performed on a object. object will not be destroyed from the memory.
- **No exception in finalize :**
	- Exceptions occurred in finalize() method are not propagated . They are ignored by the grabage collector.
	- finalize() methods are not chained like constructor i.e there is no chaining statement to super class finalize()  method inside to the finalize()  method of sub class. you need to explicitly call super class finalize() method. 