### **Object Oriented Programming**
- Solving problem by creating objects is one of the most popular approaches in programming This is called object oriented programming.
- DRY : Do not repeat yourself (focuses on code reuseablity)
---
### **Class and Obejct**
- **Class :** A class is a blueprint for creating a object.
- **Obejct :** Instance of class 
	- An object is a runtime entity that is created from a class. It represents a real-world entity and contains state (attributes) and behavior (methods).
- NOTE:
	- Class : Employee
	 - Attributes (Properties) : name , age salary
	- Method (behavior) : getSalary() , increment()
- EXAMPLE:
```java
//Class
class Student  
{
 //Attributes
 String name;
 int age ;
 char section;

 //Methods
 void displayDetails()
 {...}
 void addGrade()
 {  ....}

}
class Main ()
{
 main ()
 {
 //object
  Student s1 = new Student();// s1 is obejct and instance of class Student
 }
}

```

### **Constructor**

### **OOP Core Principle**
- **1. Encapsulation**
- **2. Inheritance **// 
- **3. Polymorphism** // overloading method/operator(compile time) , method overriding (run time)
- **4. Data hiding**
- **5. Abstraction** //
Note : some programming lanuage doesn't implement data hiding like python because , it is not consider as core principle

### **Inner Class or Nested Class**
- In java , just like method , variables of a class too can have another class as its member.
- The class written within is called the nested class or inner class.
- The class that holds the inner class is called the outer class.
- **Types of inner class**
- **1. Static inner class**
	- Static inner class instance can be created outside the outer class with the following syntax : `Outer.Inner obj = new Outer.Inner();`
	- No need to create instance of outer class
```java
class Outer 
{
  int a ;
  static class Inner 
  {
    void fun ()
    { 
      System.out.println("I am fun");
    }

  }
}
class Main 
{
  public static void main (String args[])
  {
    Outer.Inner obj = new Outer.Inner();
    obj.fun();
  }
}

```
- **2. Non static inner class**
	- Non-static inner class instance can be created outside the outer class with the following syntax :`Outer objo = new Outer ();`and `Outer.Inner obji = objo.new Inner();`
	- Need to create instance of outer class
```java
class Outer 
{
  int a ;
   class Inner 
  {
    void fun ()
    { 
      System.out.println("I am fun");
    }

  }
}
class Main 
{
  public static void main (String args[])
  {
    Outer objo = new Outer();
    Outer.Inner obji = objo.new Inner();
    obji.fun(); 
  }
}

```
- **NOTE :**
	- We know a class cannot be associated with the access modifier private, but if we have the access modifier private , but if we have the class as a member of other class , then the inner class can be made private.
	- Inner class can be private  , protected , public or default

---

### **Anonymous Class**
- Anonymous classes in java are more accurately known as anonymous inner class.
- There's no such thing as anonymous classes without the `inner`.
- They are defined inside another class.
- An anonymous inner class is an inner class that is declared without using a class name. 
- An anonymous inner class always be inner class and child class.
- Because it is anonymous we need make obj Immediately and the refrence variable will of the parent class.
```java
class Greeting 
{
 public void Hello ()
 {
   System.out.println("Hello")
 }
}

public class Main 
{
  public static void main (String args[])
  {
    Greeting obj = new Greeting {...} //here we extends the class Geeting and make a anonymouse class and its obj 
    
  }
}


```
- NOTE : we can only override or access those function or which present in parent because we assign the obj in parent class refrence variable.