
### **Abtract Class**
- Java abstract class are used to declared comman characteristics of subclasses.
- It can only be used as a  superclass for other classes that extend the abstract class.
- Like any other class , an abstract class an contain fields that describe the characteristics and method that describe the actions that a class can perform.
- You can't create object of astract class but you can create refrence varable of abstract class.
```java
abstract class A
{
...
}
```
---
### **Abstract Methods**
- An anstract class can include methods that contains no implementation . These are called abstract methods. The abstract method declaration must then end with a semicolon rather than a block.
- If a class has any abstract mthods , whether declared or inherited the either class must be declared abstract methods.
```java
class A 
{
 abstract void show();
}

class B extends A 
{
 void show ()
  {
 ....
  }
}
```

---
### **Interface**
- Interface definition begin with a keyword interface.
```java
interface some_name
{
 int x;
 void somefuction();
}
```
- Interface like a abstract class where all 
	- method = abstract and public 
	- variable = final and public and static
- Interface do not have constructor.
- We can inherit in other class like :
```java
class A implements some_name 
{
  int x = 0;
  public void samefunction ()
  {
  //code ...
  }
}
```
- If a class that implements an interface does not define all the methods of the interface then it must be declared abstract and the method definitions shold be provided by the subclass that extends the abstract class.
- **Extending and Implementing**
	 - interface can extends more then one interface 
	 - class can implement more than one interface.
```java
interface A 
{...}
interface B 
{...}

interface k extends A , B 
{...}

class Alpha extends Beta implements A , B 
{
...
}
```
- You cannot create object of any interface but creation of object refrence (refrence variable) is possible.
- Object refrence of interface can refer to any its subclass type.

---
### **Diffrence Between Interface and Abstract Class**
- Abstract class can have any access modifiers for members interface can have only public member.
- Abstract class may or may not contain abstract method . Interface can have defined method.
- Abstract class can have static or non static member , interface can have only static member variable.
- Abstract class can have final or non final members . interface can have only final member variable.
- Interface do not have constructor unlike abstarct class.



---
### **Enum**
---
### **Generics**
- Java generic methods and generic classes enable programmers to specify , with a single method declaration , a set of related methods or , with a single class declaration , a set of related types.
- **Generic Methods :** specify before the return type
	- All generic method declarations have a type parameter section delimited by angle brackets (\<X>) that preceds the method's return type 
	- Each type parameter section contains one or more type parameters separated by commas (<X,Y>)
	- The type parameter can be used to declare the return type
	- Type parameter can represent only refrennce types , not primitive type (like int , double , char..)

```java
class A 
{
 public <X> void fun (X a)
 {
   System.out.println(a);
 }
}

class Main 
{
  public static  void main (String args[])
  {
    A obj = new A();
     obj.fun("hello"); // parameter pass is String 
     obj.fun(4); //parameter pass is Integer
  }
}
```
- **Generic Class :** specify after class name  (for both while define and object creating
```java
class MyData <X>
{
 X data;

  public T get ()
  {
   return data;
  }
}

class Main 
{
 public static void main (String args[])
 {
  MyData <Integer> o1= new Mydata<Integer>();
  MyData <Character> o2 = new MyData<Character>();
  o1.data = 500;
  o2.data = 'q';
  System.out.println(o1.get());
  System.out.println(o2.get());
 }
}

```
	