### **Decisions Control**
- In python make block not using curly bracket  but using indentation (tab/space).
- in one block must have same indentation and minimum intendation = 1space.
- **1. if statemnet**
``` python
if condition:
	print("Hello")
```
- **2. if-else statement**
```python
if condifion:
	print("true")
else:
	print("false ")
```
- **3.if elif else statement**
```python
if condition1:
	print("condition1 true")
elif condition2:
	print("condition 1 is false and condition 2 is true")
elif condition n:
	print("condition 1 to n-1 false and condition n is true ")
else:
	print("all condition (1-n) is false")
```
 - **4.single line if-else
 ```python
 print("hello") if 4>5 else print("world")
 OR (as expression)
 a= 5 if a>1 else -5
```
---

### **Loop**
- **1. while**
```python
while condition:
	#code while condition true
``` 
  - we can use else with while , else block always excute after while block except when while block exit by `break`.
  ```python
  while condition:
   print("hello")
  else:
   print("world")
```
- **2.for loop**
```python
for variable in iterable-sequence:
 #code 
```
- while is used to conditionaly repeat a block of code
- for iterate n time , where n is number of elements in sequence.
- **itreable** : An iterable object is something that contains a countable number of values.you can travel through all the values from beginning to the end.
- Technically in python , an iterator is an object , which implements the iteraval protocol , which consist of method \_\_iter\_\_() and  \_\_next\_\_() .
- various iterable - range , list , tuple , str , bytes , bytearray , set , frozenset , dict
- **range**
	-  range is a class. 
	- range is immutable sequrence. 
	- range can contain only int type value. 
	- range contains sequence of integers with comman diffrence (Arthmetic progression).
	- syn: range (beg,end,step) 
	- syn: range (beg,end) , defalut step = 1
	- syn: range (end) , defalut beg = 0 and step = 1

---

### **List**
- List is a class
- list is a iterable sequence 
- list is mutable
- list is growable
- list can store heterozygenous data (can store int , str , float means diffrent type of data in one list object)
- list elements are indexed. (0 ....  n-1 OR -n .... -1)
**create list object**
-  lis1 = [20 , "hrllo"]
- lis = []
**access and change**
- lis1 = [1,2,3,4]
- lis1[0] // give output : 1
- lis1[0] = "hello" // chnage the vlaue on index 0 => lis1[0] // give output "hello"
**delete the value**
- del lis[index]
**insert and append**
- l1.append(value) // add value at last_index +1 
- l1.insert(index,value)// if index > no of element => call append function
**packing and unpacking**
- l1= [1 , 2 ,3] => a , b ,c= l1 // unpacking. number of variable must same number of ele in list
- l2=[a,b,c] //packing
**list method**
- l1  = list() // l1= []
- l1 = list(iterable) // l1 = [ iterable elments ]
**list object methods**
- l1.append()
- l1.insert()
- l1.remove(value) // remove first occurence of the value
- l1.pop(index(defalut n-1)) // remove and return last element OR can mention index
- l1.clear() // remove all the element
- l1.reverse() // reverse all  the elements
- l1.sort() // sort list element
- l1.index(value) // return index of first occurence of the vlaue
- l1.count(value) // how many times value occures

**comparison of list**
- l1== l2   // only true when number elements and crossponding ele same else false
- l1> l2 // check corrosponding element form 0th index one by one until get false or true (while draw)
**concartetion**
- l1 + l2 = union
- l1* constant // if l1= [1,2] => l1 * 3 = [1,2,1,2,1,2]
**list comprehension**
- syntax : [ expression  for variable in iterable]  ```
```python 
# is equal to 
for variable in iterable:
	expression 
```

**built in method**
- len( iterable)   : return length  
- min(iterable )  : return min value
- max( iterable) : return max value
- sum( iterable) : return sum
- sorted(iterable) : return a sorted list of element
NOTE1: built in method can be use for all iterable
NOTE 2: all function and variable in class called **attributes**.

 
