### **Procedure Oriented Programming**
- procedure == function == series of instruction to accomplish a task
- A program can be thought of a collection of procedure main.
- Main focus on doing things.
- Python supports procedural approach of programming.

---
### **Object Oriented Programming**
- It is a programming paradigm that provides a means of structuring programs so that properties and behaviors are bundled into individual objects.
- Python supports object oriented approach programming.
- This approach revolves around object.
- An object is a group of properties
- Object is also capable to perform certain action . such actions may change the state of an object.
- Object : Object is a real world entity.
**main aspects of oops**
- 1. Encapsulation : act of combine property and methods related to the same entity
- 2. Abstraction :
- 3. Inheritance  :
- 4. Polymorphism : 
- 5. Data hiding (not for python / for c++)

---
### **Class and Object**
- Class = common noun (human , city) , Object = proper noun (ramesh , delhi)
```python
class class_name:  # define class
 #variable/property 
 #function/method 

obj=class_name() #create object 


```
- In python class property and method called attribute.
**Class Object**
- class object = class name 
-  class name contain reference of class object
- class object only one and created when define class
**Instance Object**
- instance object = object of the class , 
- instance object can create many , after the class define
- instance object are empty object at the time of creating.
**\_\_init\_\_()  method**
- constructor
```python
class class_name:
 def __init__(self):
```
**Types of  variable**
in python total 4 type of variable
- instance object variable : instance object variable can access only via instance object
- class  object variable (static variable.  in python no static keyword): access via variable inside class and class_name.variable 
- local variable
- global variable
```python
str="hello"  # str is global variable
class Test:
	a =10;  # a is class object variable
	def f1(self,p):
		self.k=p; # self.k is instance object variable and p is local variable

obj = Test() # obj is a instance object varaible
		  
	
```
**Types of function**
- instance method : when instance method called implicitly pass instance object refrence
- static method : can called via class name 
- class method : call via class name and imlicitly pass class object.
- non-member function
```python
class Test:
	def f1(self): #instance method
		self.a=12
  
	@staticmethod 
    def f2():     # static method
	    print("hello world")

    @classmethod  
    def f3(cls):   # class method
		cls.x=5

def add (a,b):  # non-member fucntion
	return a+b
```


### **Golbal variable and Local variable**
```python
a=0
def fun:
	global a
	a=90
	OR
	g=globals()
	g['a'] =90

```

